Israel's military says it has taken full
control of the strip of land that serves
as a buffer zone between Gaza and Egypt
the Israeli military claims the
Philadelphia Corridor provides a weapon
smuggling route into Gaza for Hamas
militants but it's also a key part of a
delicate peace Arrangement between
Israel and Egypt Israel has also
deepened its incursion into Rafa in
southern
Gaza Israeli helicopters firing towards
Rafa
near the southernmost City in Gaza where
Israel's military says it has seized
control of a key stretch of
land the 14 km Philadelphia Corridor
that has long served as a buffer zone
between Gaza and
Egypt in recent days IDF forces have
taken operational control of the
Philadelphia Corridor along the border
between Egypt and Rafa the Philadelphia
Corridor served as an oxygen pipe for
Hamas through which it regularly
transits weapon to the gasa
strope the capture of the corridor where
Israel says its troops found these
rocket launchers could complicate
Israel's relations with Egypt Cairo has
accused Israel of using the allegations
of smuggling to justify legally
occupying the stretch of land this
latest development is also a signal of
Israel's deepening of offensive in
southern Gaza despite growing
international calls for it to stop
Israel's military Chief of Staff visited
troops in Rafa assuring them they will
push
on we are here for a couple of reasons
this is the last Hamas Brigade that
remains with all its capabilities and we
want to dismantle
it Israel insists it needs to carry out
the Raa operation to rescue the hostages
Hamas took in the October s Terror
attacks despite condemnation from allies
and Aid groups alike as civilian
casualties
Mount Israeli bombardment in Rafa on
Wednesday hit a building in the asalam
neighborhood meanwhile the Hamas ran
Health Ministry announced a death toll
in the Gaza War had risen above 36,000
the problem is that that military
operation has been conducted in such a
way that the number of Civilian
casualties and the destruction of
Civilian infrastructure and housing are
unprecedented and there's no end in
sight Israel's National Security advisor
says the offensive in Gaza is expected
to go on for at least seven more
months let's get some analysis now from
Marina Miron she's from the War studies
Department in King's College London good
to see you Marina why does Israel say
operations in Gaza will continue at
least till the end of the
year good morning well what we have to
understand is that such operations are
very complex and it's a very optimistic
assessment that the operations will
continue for at least 7 months I would
be very cautious on naming a timeline in
terms of when this operation might end
because looking at history of counter
Insurgency campaigns they can go on for
decades and a military Victory doesn't
necessarily mean that the war is over
therefore I'm sure that it is sad for
more political reasons to relieve some
of the pressure on Israel rather than an
accurate assessment of what might
actually happen on the ground you said
that it's mainly for political reasons
and I'd like to sort of uh like you to
potentially expand on that because I
think military analysts around the world
are generally saying that the stated aim
of destroying Hamas cannot be done
militarily so you are saying that this
operation could continue even beyond the
end of the year because it is primarily
for political reasons is that
correct well what I'm trying to say here
is that a military defeat of Hamas in
its present form and shap shape doesn't
necessarily mean that Israel will be
more secure and the reason for this
being is that Hamas is not only a
military organization it has an ideology
so what is essentially happening is that
the civilian casualties that are
mounting in Gaza might be pushing the
population that would have been neutral
perhaps prior to this war to support
Hamas and to carry on its ideology so in
essence if you destroy militarily all of
the Hamas Fighters you don't know how
many of the civilian population of those
um children whose parents have been
killed will be joining to carry on the
cause and it it will not be an immediate
thing but there has to be a political
plan for reconstruction of Gaza for
ensure ensuring Law and Order In order
to prevent it from happening and doesn't
the Israeli military know
this oh of course they know it but it's
not the task of the military to solve
political questions I think it's the
task of the political leadership to
ensure that there is a viable political
end State military can do only so much
and it has its set objectives however it
is the political leadership that has to
take care of that situation and I think
the International Community has to also
be involved in resolving this crisis
that we're seeing anday Paving The Way
Forward what is going to happen to Gaza
once the military objective is achieved
is there a way for Israel to achieve its
military objectives at the same time as
protecting
civilians it is a very difficult task to
protect civilians while also trying to
destroy Hamas um one of the reasons
being is that Hamas does live among the
civilians they are not um wearing
designated uniforms in many cases so
it's very difficult to distinguish them
from civilians the other problem is the
problem of military necessity and
proportionality when does military
necessity eliminating say um key leaders
of Hamas outweigh the collateral damage
that it would cause among the civilians
so you have a lot of ethical dilemas to
solve what do you do do you cause a lot
of damage but take out the main Hamas
leadership or do you take it slow
potentially risking more deaths over a
long over a longer period of time and do
it more
surgically we'll leave with there for
the moment thanks for joining us today
Marina iron from the war studies
department at Kings College
London thank you for having
me let's get more now from DW
correspondent Rebecca rits in Jerusalem
Rebecca why does Israel say operations
in Gaza will continue at least till the
end of the
year Well bees Israel has maintained
since the get-go since the very
beginning of this war that its main
military aim is to eliminate H Hamas now
as we're seeing uh Israel hasn't managed
to do that so far they're continuing uh
to carry on that uh military aim in Rafa
as you just heard in that report there
and we're also seeing fighting resume in
areas that had been officially cleared
and confirmed uh you know that they had
pulled out of in Central and Northern
Gaza and Hamas are fighting a Guerilla
Warfare many experts are in fact warning
of what they say might be a forever War
you know it's sort of like Insurgency
style Warfare happening in Gaza that
Israel won't be able to come back and
say to the Israeli population we did it
we eliminated Hamas and therefore uh
we're inevitably going to see this war
drag on that's certainly what experts
are saying and of course we have the
issue of the hostages there as you heard
in that report and we've been talking
about now for months Israel needing to
also be able to come back bring the
hostages back to the many people in
Israel who are calling for that now of
course you've also got the political
angle Benjamin Netanyahu really fighting
for his political survival and knowing
that when such a time comes that the war
ends he will have to face questions uh
regarding how uh something like October
7 was able to happen under his watch
he's been saying it's not fair it's not
right uh to have to answer those
questions as the war is ongoing and that
that would come at the end of the war so
there's little incentive on his part as
well well to to try to bring this to a
close but definitely the main aim is
going to be because of this this you
know desire or this stated claim that
they're going to eliminate Hamas and
bring back the hostages something that
they haven't been able to achieve to
this date and Rebecca how much consensus
is there amongst Israelis about this
ongoing
offensive well since the very beginning
again you know Israel most Israeli the
majority of Israelis have been in
support of this they see this as um
inevitable they see this as as a must
have they want to see Hamas eliminated
and that threat they don't want to see
another attack happen like what happened
on October 7 all understandable they um
you know there are of course voices
within Israel a small amount of voices
who who don't want to see this war
continue that are calling for a
ceasefire and a small but growing number
of people who are calling for anything
to be done in order for the hostages to
to be able to brought back so they
calling for you know any deal to be made
with Hamas so that their loved ones can
come home that's being spearheaded of
course by the families of the hostages
but that is a growing uh voice here but
by and large overall we're seeing you
know the support maintained for this for
this conflict until uh Israel manages to
meet that aim of eliminating Hamas but
the media landscape here it should be
said is very different the discussion in
the mainstream media here isn't what
we're seeing on International uh news
and reading an international papers it's
much more focused on the hostage
situation and the threat of Hamas and
and people certainly uh hoping that that
Israel will be successful in meeting
those aims and in the midst of all of
this Rebecca the UN is warning of famine
and is also saying that the amount of
humanitarian Aid entering Gaza has
dropped by 2third since Israel began
this assault on Rafa this month what is
the Israeli government saying about
that well the Israeli government painted
very different picture they say that a
lot more Aid is getting in but the
numbers the way that it's calculated
varies the way that the UN calculates
calculates it is different to how the
Israelis do and the Israelis include the
numbers coming through places like
ashdod Port which is on the Israeli side
that that's not including trucks that
then actually enter into Israel so we're
seeing a huge drop in the amount of Aid
the UN saying have been warning for a
very long time that famine is IM
imminent and now we're seeing you know
50 trucks a day or 50 eight trucks a day
I should say on average compared with
nearly 180 before this May 7 incursion
that is M far far fewer than the 500 to
600 trucks a day needed to Stave off uh
the the humanitarian catastrophe that's
unfolding there we'll leave it there for
the moment but thanks so much for
joining us Rebecca RS in
Jerusalem meanwhile Chinese president
xiin ping has promised help for the Gaza
Strip and spoken in favor of a peace
conference saying the war cannot
continue indefinitely at a meeting with
with top representatives of Arab
countries he indicated China's support
for the creation of a Palestinian
State China firmly supports the
establishment of an independent state of
Palestine that enjoys full sovereignty
based on the 1967 borders with East
Jerusalem as its
capital it supports palestine's full
membership in the
UN and supports a more broad-based
authoritative and effective
International Peace conference